#Reading data from VTK files using pyvtk

# Introduction #

We use interactions on iPython to show how to read in data from VTK files using pyvtk. We use the file `example1.vtk` generated by `example/example1.py` (in pyvtk source folder) as the example.

# Details #

First, import pyvtk. (To be specific, we do not use `from pyvtk import *` ) Then, the file can be loaded using the function `pyvtk.Vtkdata()` . pyvtk will output information about the file.

```
In [1]: import pyvtk

In [2]: Data = pyvtk.VtkData('example1.vtk')
VtkData.__init__.fromfile.polydata_fromfile.message:
		getting 8 points

```

Since pyvtk does not currently fully support VTK 3.0/4.0 now, you may see a message like this when loading a VTK 3.0/4.0 format file :

`File lh.euclidean.vtk is not in VTK 2.0 format, got #vtkdatafileversion3.0  but continuing anyway..`





The variable `Data` is the "portal" to the file. The file header can be access as follows

```
In [4]: Data.header
Out[4]: 'Really cool data'
```

Most VTK file contains two parts of information, a set of structures (points, vertexes, lines, polygons, etc. ) and a set of data associated with those structures (point data, cell data, etc.).

Points, vertexes, lines, polygons, triangles\_strips can be accessed as follows. Since `example1.vtk` has no lines, polygons or triangle\_strips, we will get empty lists for them.

```
In [5]: Data.structure.points
Out[5]: 
[(0, 0, 0),
 (1, 0, 0),
 (1, 1, 0),
 (0, 1, 0.1),
 (0, 0, 1),
 (1, 0, 1),
 (1, 1, 1),
 (0, 1, 1)]

In [6]: Data.structure.vertices
Out[6]: [[0, 5, 6, 3, 2, 1]]

In [7]: Data.structure.lines
Out[7]: [[]]

In [8]: Data.structure.polygons
Out[8]: [[]]

In [9]: Data.structure.triangle_strips
Out[9]: [[]]
```

Since `example1.vtk` does not have cell data, we will use point data as the example to show how to access data associated with structures. Cell data can be accessed similarly.

More than point data sets may associate with one set of points.
They can be explicitly accessed using different indexes as shown below.

```

In [10]: Data.point_data.data[0].scalars
Out[10]: [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]

In [14]: Data.point_data.length
Out[14]: 8

In [28]: Data.point_data.data_type
Out[28]: 'POINT_DATA'


```